---
layout: post
title:  "Autonomous Light Sensing Robot"
date:   2019-02-28
excerpt: "Ladybot, the light sensing robot."
image: "/images/ladybot.jpg"
---

## Purpose of the Ladybot
The Ladybot was created in February of my freshman year, as a project in my Cornerstone of Engineering course. Some of the biggest topics from that course were learning C++ basics, designing in AutoCAD and Solidworks, integration with Arduino, and the basics of MATLAB. This project served as a final implementation of all of those skills put together.

The prompt for the project was to create a fully autonomous robot that would locate the source of light in a dark room, and then show some form of recognition that it was found. We were given a basic chassis, the motors, and motor controllers and sent to work. Splitting the class into teams of 3, this project was set up in a competition format to see which team would locate the light the quickest.

## Implementation Details
At the time the code for the Ladybot was written, I was much less experienced than I am now, and so if I were to redo it there's a lot of things I would optimize and change. However, I think that the basic hardware design was actually quite ideal for this purpose. At the front of the Ladybot were two ultrasonic distance sensors, which would force the Ladybot to turn away when met with an obstacle. The two outward-facing "antennae" of the Ladybot are long wires connected to photoresistors. The dual photoresistor design was key to our team's success, as the Ladybot was one of the few robots in the competition which always ran towards the goal rather than stop, calibrate, and move. Finally, the red-colored LED seen at the top of the shell of the Ladybot turned on upon reaching the light source.

## Code and Solidworks Diagrams
tbd
